---
title:  CORS - What a pain this has been
author: Will Andrews
date: 2018-04-17
order: 5
---

So, I spent 4 or 5 hours banging my head against my desk and battling with code because of a CORS issue.

I published my new API changes to my Azure app and did the same for my Angular Web App, only to find that now I received a cross origin header error, because he web app and api were on different domains. However, I fixed this issue months ago when I first published them. So what changed? Well I can't say because I don't know. The published the last working version I had, and it still didn't work. Yay.

At first it looked like the problem I was getting was because I was using 'Content-type : application/json' as a header, that apparently Cors doesn't accept (even though my app worked before), however it turns out i wasn't that.

So what else could it be? Well I Googled a lot and configured CORS in my api in multiple different ways according to the Google results, without any joy. 

So what was it? Well, by fluke I was scrolling through the Azure web apps options, looking for the logs section (because we all know logs help), when I see a section called 'CORS'! A quick peak in here, gives you an option to enter some allowed origins. So I put in my web apps url, save, restart the api app and bingo! I works!!!!

So what have a learnt? Well for starters, CORS is a huge area and there are lots that can be done with it. Most importantly though, Azure probably have a configuration setting for the issue you're having, so check there first.